Welcome back.
So, I've
just created a new
project here in code blocks.
Anyway.
So what we are going
to do here
is take a look in it
at an example.
So real example, not just
a conceptual syntax.
So, we will
define a structure
called date.
And we will give it
three attributes. So you will
have day, month,
and a year.
Let's go ahead and type in
struct
date
and it's going to be
int
day
int month
and
int
year
Excellent. So you have
three attributes here.
Attribute day is of
type int
and all three of them
pretty much are of
type int here but
I mean, you could have
placed a string or
whatever it doesn't really,
they can be of different types.
So above,
we have this particular
structure.
In my comments here,
it's actually above
so we have a
defined structure date with
three attributes.
Sometimes these attributes
are also called fields.
So if you're reading some
documentation
out there on the net,
keep in mind that they are sometimes
referred to as fields as well.
All these attributes are
public.
That is they are visible outside
the structure.
So, I don't know, function
or something inside of main,
etc. Depends on where the
structure is, I guess
can actually access,
can actually see what's in
the structure, can access
the attributes within the structure.
Anyway.
This structure is now a
user defined type.
That is we can create a
variable of type date.
However, the structure
is only defined.
It does not take memory space.
Only after we create a variable
of type date.
The structure will actually
take up memory space
then we can access
its attributes.
It sounds really confusing
with what I've just had,
what I've just said.
But
don't worry about it,
once I'll write the code
you'll see it.
So when we create a variable
of type date,
we say that we instanciate
the structure date.
So it's just one of those terms
that you should have
in mind
and that you should remember.
That is we will create
an object of type date.
This is a declaration of
a structure variable.
So,
look fully here what I'm about
to do.
I'm going to basically
go ahead and
take this.
Control x
and place it here,
above the main.
Well, outside of the main.
That's the idea here.
And then I'm going to go
back into the main.
There we go.
And I'm going to type in
date
space
d
t
;
So this creates a variable
dt of type date.
Sounds rather strange
but look at this.
It's not really that much different
from me typing int.
dt
you see.
I mean there is highlighting
sure, but the concept
is fairly similar.
Excellent.
So we will access the attributes
day, month
and
a year
using a special operator called
member access operator.
And this is a dot operator, so
just place a dot basically.
We will write a variable name
followed by a dot
and then the name
of the attribute.
You have a variable name
which is dt
and then you place a dot
and then you place a name of
one of these variables
and that's how you basically
that's how you
would access
one of the attributes here.
So let's go ahead and have
some fun with it.
So let's type in std.
I don't know,
cout
enter
month
okay.
So this is fairly simple.
std
::cin
nothing new here,
all the same.
And now we write
dt.day
You see, it even actually,
code blocks even helps you out.
It gives you the set
of possibilities.
So you can basically,
day, month, year
and it even tells you
their ints.
It could have told you
that there were
floats or whatever,
doesn't matter.
And that is how
we shall
fill day up.
We will initialize it.
We will give it a value.
Okay so, std ::
We shall repeat the process.
I know that
repetition
can be a little bit boring
but
it's really not bad for learning,
so to say.
Some things you memorize,
most things you understand,
at the end of the day
you're able to code.
That's the important part.
So, same thing we shall do
for the year and
it's like enter day and
then I have a year here.
It's going to be,
it should be month,
day, year, right?
month
day
and we will try to be
cheeky here and
copy this.
And we shall simply
rename this to
year
and up here
it will be year.
There we go.
So now, our variable dt
holds information about date.
Date is our structure above.
We can print them out
pretty much any format
that you want.
But let's
just go ahead and
do it like this.
Well actually you can do
it anyway you want.
I'm just going to go ahead and
write it
in this fashion, so.
Entered
date
;
and we're going to separate this.
Keep in mind that this is purely
for aesthetic reasons in my opinion.
This is not going to go
into a new line.
So,
this is all going to be
printed out on the same line.
There is no endl or new line
character here anything like that.
It's all on the same line
except I'm writing different
lines of code.
But when it gets printed out,
it's going to be on the same line.
So,
dt.
month. You see we're
accessing attributes in this fashion.
dt variable name
and then dot
attribute name.
I've showered you a little bit
with some
technical terms,
names basically
or technical terms, however
you wish to call them.
Make sure
that you remember at least
some of them.
Because if ever you read
any material,
etc. you will find, you will
encouter these terms and
it's going to save you a lot
of time by just knowing
what they are as supposed to
going about every time and
looking it up on the net.
But on the more important side
of notes, it will make,
it will help you out
in reading form post
in regards to C++ and in regard
to some solutions to code.
Because let's be honest
if there is a coding problem,
you always go to the forums.
You never go to the books.
Okay so this will create a print out.
So keep in mind
that we can access the structure
attributes only
when it is declared.
So keep that in mind.
You can only access the attributes
when it is declared
that is.
When we create
a variable
of
its type,
we cannot write for example,
I don't know let's put
it like this.
So we cannot write this.
date.
day
equals 10.
So this is
not
going to work, so yeah
you see.
date.day
equals 10.
Date is the structure name
and this not going to work.
Here let me just try
to compile it.
If I didn't make any errors
and I didn't.
So this,
you cannot utilize it
in this fashion.
Okay semi-colon,
fine, whatever.
Let's go ahead and
run it again.
But I'm going to get an
error again, it doesn't matter.
It will not work.
So you cannot do
like write a date
and
as it is here and then
place a dot.
And then access
and attribute
from the structure.
You need to do this.
Date and then
create this variable here.
And by using that variable
you will be accessing attributes
of the structure in this fashion.
See, easy as that.
Okay so, let's run this.
Okay so.
Tenth
of the tenth
of
2016.
Okay, entered date is tenth
of the tenth 2016.
You see the print out
is on the same line,
regardless of me spreading
this write out onto
two lines of code here.
Okay then.
We can take a look at
another short example.
This is not going to be
anything complicated.
So just go ahead
and
well, I can recycle that.
But I am
going to
remove all of these.
And we're going to have like
date, dt
1 and then
dt2
What could this be?
Well, this is awesome.
Because it allows you
to recycle
variable names
a lot
in a way, I guess.
Take that with a grain of salt
and here's why.
So you type in dt1.
year and
you can say that, let's say
that this is 2016.
But then you can type in
dt2.
year equals
2020.
So what is this?
It seems that we have
2 years and yet
there was only 1 attribute
here in this struct date.
Well,
yes, you can do this.
You can have
different variables here
and each one of this
variables can be
use to give a value
to one of these attributes.
And if you call
dt1.year, you're going to
get 2016.
If you call dt2.year, you're
going to get 2020.
Here, let me just actually
create a
print out and then will
round this tutorial up.
So...
how shall we do this.
Well, let's just do it
like this.
dt
1.
year
is equal
to
dt1.
dt1
.year
std::
endl
Fantastic. So now here,
std cout
We have to see what
I'm writing.
dt
2.
year
shall be equal to
dt
2.
year
std::
endl
Okay, so. You will see that
these two contain
completely different values.
So 2016 and 2020.
There you go,
2016, 2020.
So I just wanted to,
as a last note of this tutorial,
I just want to show you
that you can actually even do
this without
any
problems of whatsoever.
Anyway, I bid you
farewell.
And we shall hopefully
see
each other in the
follow up tutorial.